now since Israel began its bombardment
of Gaza nine countries have withdrawn
their ambassadors or severed ties now
they call for an immediate ceasefire and
for humanitarian Aid to enter the strip
unhindered NATO member turkey is amongst
those that's pulled its Ambassador out
so did Israel's neor Jordan and it said
that Israel is committing war crimes the
latest to join the list are Chad and
South Africa Bolivia was the first two
SE ties entirely with Israel saying its
decision was a condemnation of the
aggressive and dis proportionate Israeli
military offensive taking place in the
Gaza Strip Alan Fischer has more from
occupied East
Jerusalem thank you Benjamin Netanyahu
has spent many days recently meeting
world leaders the latest the Bulgarian
president but with more countries
rethinking diplomatic links with Israel
the Prime Minister decided to act he
summoned foreign ambassadors to a
meeting in tviv and claimed Israel was
fighting for their future too we will
win and we believe that all civilized
Powers should back Us in this effort
because this battle is your battle and
our Victory is your Victory several
countries have withdrawn their
ambassadors over the growing Carnage in
Gaza Bolivia has severed all diplomatic
ties many have criticized the human cost
of war the growing number of Civilian
deaths the pictures of dead children in
the wreckage the latest country to
recall its Ambassador South Africa we
believe the nature uh of response by
Israel has become uh one of collective
punishment which Falls fully outside of
the practice of international
humanitarian and international human
rights law Ireland's prime minister has
also said he has no regrets at
describing Israel's response to the
Hamas attack as something more
approaching Revenge bringing together
the community of ambassadors shows that
Israel is worried it's losing
international support about the way it's
Prosecuting the war in Gaza but the
Diplomatic Tipping Point may come if one
of its traditional allies decided to
call for a ceasefire or even an end to
the war Alan Fischer Al jazer in
occupied East Jerusalem let's bring you
those latest pictures coming out of Gaza
and explain what they are a military
sourcerers has confirmed they're
described as illumination rounds fired
from Israeli artillery their flares that
are attached to a parish shoot that
float down like a sort of mini Sun
giving uh the military the opportunity
to operate in uh daylight so to speak
when they run out of uh fire they the
military fire more into the air um the
Israeli military according to this
particular Source don't have as many
night vision goggles or night vision
capability as uh other Armed Forces like
the US for example they do have some
smaller specialized units that do have
these night vision goggles but C
certainly what you're seeing uh are not
Munitions as such but they're called
illumination rounds that light up the
sky and allow the Israelis to Target the
locations that they have been doing
certainly for the past three hours
across the Gaza Strip let's bring in Mar
Bashar aljazera senior political analyst
he's been monitoring events with me can
we just begin with uh Ry manzur at the
UN he wasn't party to this closed door
meeting that's been held by the security
Council a meeting called by the United
Arab Emirates and China over the
ceasefire but it is the word ceasefire
that is Paramount right now and Ry
manzur made that very
clear yes um and and that's also clear
from uh what he explained in terms of
the general
assembly's overwhelming resolution in
favor of a humanitarian truce which now
considering the humanitarian uh disaster
that is called Gaza I think the the need
for a humanitarian ceasefire is uh is
Paramount but once again you know as he
said there is an actual elephant in the
room and clearly the Biden
Administration has uh rejected once and
again uh the idea of a ceasefire because
it's trying to Shield Israel
diplomatically as Israel carries its
crimes in in in Gaza there's this idea
in the Biden Administration that Israel
uh needs to get Justice and needs to
finish as it were
Hamas in Gaza and for both the United
States and Israel unlike the rest of the
International
Community uh the ends justify all means
the end meaning finishing of Hamas
justify the devastation of Gaza and
that's not acceptable to the rest of the
International Community and this might
be the overall message that's been given
you might say by by the top uh be it the
president or or the the Prime Minister
but what we do have is secretary blinken
and the CIA Chief in the region talking
to various capitals and various leaders
of respective Middle East countries that
have influence or certainly have an
opinion secretary blinken has certainly
experienced firsthand how angry the
Middle East is right now is this message
going to reverberate when he goes back
to
Washington you would you would hope so
right but uh to me the Administration
has to has proven to be uh sort of
blindly following in Israel's footsteps
you would think as a as a world form of
superpower it would be sensitive to its
credibility reputation and interests
around the world especially in the
Middle East and you would think that it
will have a certain calculus different
from that of Israel so instead of
blindly copying Israel and coupling its
mindset to that of Israel that it would
take a bit of a distance figure out what
is needed in the Middle East and in Gaza
today and act a bit more responsibly
because the United States has been
acting even less responsibly than Israel
the last month see if you look at it
soel and I think our viewers around the
world have probably noticed that
American diplomacy and Israeli War have
been two sides of the same coin and
that's problematic in the sense that
America has used its gun Bo diplomacy
gun boo diplomacy something like
borrowed from the 18th century uh like
like the British Empire they dispatched
aircraft carriers and uh and and nuclear
submarines to the east Mediterranean in
order to flick their muscles Shield
Israel and basically uh pressure
different countries in in the Middle
East to support Israel in its war crimes
as you said as you well stated the Arab
capitals are are in no mood to be
complicit in Israel's war crimes against
fellow Arabs even the most moderate the
most
pro-american uh like Egypt and and
Jordan have rejected the notion of
Israel self-defense by carrying war
crimes in Gaza and hence you would think
something got to give and we're already
a month into this uh this evil war
against the Palestinians and the United
States needs to start taking some steps
to distance itself from the war crimes
and start acting more responsibly like a
grownup you talk about responsibility
and we talk about anger in the Middle
East but we have to also focus on Egypt
because they have a very delicate
position but also a very important
position and a responsible one as well
we're talking about the Rafa border the
only communication and transport link
there is really for Palestinians and
gazans to get in or out uh if their name
is on a list the Rafa border is not open
all the time and there are restrictions
There Are Rules there are laws and there
are agreements that hinder Egypt even
wanting to open that door and allowing
everybody out but it's not going to
happen but you would think that in these
exceptional circumstances of an utter
genocide taking place in plain sight
that you would take exceptional
measures I mean these exceptional
circumstances require exceptional
measures and these are not that
exceptional in the sense that Egypt has
a very special relationship with the
Gaza Strip it in fact administered it
for for 20 years gaza's only way out to
the world is through Egypt you know
probably I don't know how many exactly
but a good a good portion of the people
in Gaza have studied in Egypt all these
doctors that we see and nurses and
teachers a lot of them actually have
studied in Egypt a lot of them have
actually gone to Egypt and went back so
so there is there is a real uh uh
genetic if you will National interest
and relationship between Egypt and Gaza
uh uh uh Egypt owes us to be more
responsible owes the people in Gaza to
be more responsible owes the
International Community to be a more
responsible Middle East players because
it's always been that way meaning Egypt
is like a sort of a nation state that's
always acted soberly in the Middle East
it doesn't act out of a you know emotion
or or rash
it actually considers things and a month
into the genocide into the war crimes
into the suffering into the killing of
of thousands of Palestinians you would
want Egypt to step in and say look I had
enough of this Bloody War I am not
necessarily able to stop it but I'm
certainly going to try to help people
eat and get medicine and get shelter and
that's a humanitarian uh uh mission to
do now finally and probably this is the
most important since we are talking not
in humanitarian uh NOS we're talking
about a state and and and an interstate
system it would be very helpful for
Egypt to play an important role moving
forward after this war ends if it acts
responsibly today and acts in a way that
is humanely reasonable towards the
people in Gaza only by acting
responsibly not with indifference but
with difference towards the people of
Gaza will it be able to play a an
important Ro after us because I think
the Egyptian presidency is looking to
the time when the dust settles so it can
go back again and play an important role
in East Mediterranean politics but it
won't be able to do that if it lets down
the people of Gaza today we shall see
what does happen certainly uh over the
next few weeks the
Bashar thank you